OSDOCS-9565: configuring AWS Outposts postinstallation (#71263)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/aws-outposts-ingress-controller-service.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * post_installation_configuration/configuring-aws-outposts.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="aws-outposts-ingress-controller-service_{context}"]
= Ensuring the default Ingress Controller uses the correct subnet

To prevent the cloud controller manager from adding edge compute nodes in an Outpost to the default Ingress Controller, you must configure the publishing service for the {product-title} ingress to use only the cloud-based subnet.

.Prerequisites

* You have extended an AWS VPC cluster into an Outpost.

* You have access to the cluster using an account with `cluster-admin` permissions.

* You have installed the {oc-first}.

> .Procedure

Author: Yeah, the steps were a placeholder waiting on real ones. Those are in now (pending review from Andrey to make sure I didn't get it way off). 

Re: where this ends up, we need to iron out what we are pulling out of this PR. I am trying to gather the various points of discussion about that to understand.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * post_installation_configuration/configuring-aws-outposts.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="aws-outposts-ingress-controller-service_{context}"]
= Configuring the default Ingress Controller in an AWS VPC cluster extended into an Outpost

Classic Load Balancers in the AWS VPC cluster can attach to edge compute resources in the Outpost if edge and cloud-based subnets are in the same availability zone.

> As a result, Classic Load Balancers on the VPC cluster might schedule pods on either of these node types.

Reviewer: I'm struggling to understand these phrases. The Classic Load Balancer can target (send traffic to) cloud-based and outpost instances (nodes). This way if the workload (the final destination of the traffic) is scheduled on a cloud based or outpost node by OpenShift the CLB can still reach it. This introduction is supposed to tell the user that CLB can load balance between the mixed locales (cloud, outpost) and the follow up phrases are supposed to tell the user that the ingresscontroller can be scheduled on mixed instances too. So they can work as is, without any additional configurations. But to avoid the latency (which is likely to be present) between the cloud based locale and outpost locale a procedure can be followed.

> The default Ingress Controller deployment on the VPC cluster is scheduled by a Classic Load Balancer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default Ingress Controller deployment on the VPC cluster is published by a Classic Load Balancer.
```

> Because the load balancer can attach to edge compute resources in the Outpost, it might schedule Ingress Controller deployment on edge compute nodes.

Reviewer: The phrase doesn't seem correct to me. The Class Load Balancer (CLB) can target (load balancer the traffic between) outpost and cloud based instances. The IngressController deployment can be scheduled on outpost and cloud based nodes but this is done by OpenShift, not CLB.

Scheduling on these nodes introduces latency between the router and the backend.

> To prevent the default Ingress Controller in the VPC cluster from attaching to Outpost edge compute nodes, you must apply labels to the cloud-based compute nodes and configure the default Ingress Controller to only schedule on nodes with the applied labels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prevent the default Ingress Controller in the VPC cluster from scheduling on Outpost edge compute nodes, you must apply labels to the cloud-based compute nodes and configure the default Ingress Controller to only schedule on nodes with the applied labels.
```

.Prerequisites

* You have extended an AWS VPC cluster into an Outpost.

* You have access to the cluster using an account with `cluster-admin` permissions.

* You have installed the {oc-first}.

.Procedure

. Label the cloud-based compute nodes in the VPC cluster with a key-value pair by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ for NODE in $(oc get node -l node-role.kubernetes.io/worker --no-headers | grep -v outposts | awk '{print$1}'); do oc label node $NODE <key_name>=<value>; done

Reviewer: `grep` and `awk` are fine with me but I thought we try to limit the usage of the third party utils if there are `oc` equivalents. In this case we can use `-l` syntax:
```bash
$ NODES=$(oc get node -l '!node-role.kubernetes.io/outposts,node-role.kubernetes.io/worker' --template='{{range .items}}{{.metadata.name}} {{end}}')
$ oc label node ${NODES} label1=value1
```

or to have all on one line:
```bash
$ oc label node $(oc get node -l '!node-role.kubernetes.io/outposts,node-role.kubernetes.io/worker' --template='{{range .items}}{{.metadata.name}} {{end}}')  label1=value1
```

Author: yes - I often don't know how to form the appropriate `oc` command but def want to keep things as native to OCP as we can. Thank you!

----
+
where `<key_name>=<value>` is the label you want to use to distinguish cloud-based compute nodes.
+
.Example output
[source,text]
----
node1.example.com labeled
node2.example.com labeled
node3.example.com labeled
----

. Optional: Verify that the cloud-based compute nodes have the specified label by running the following command and verifying that the output includes all cloud-based compute nodes in your VPC cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get nodes -l <key_name>=<value>
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                   STATUS    ROLES     AGE       VERSION
node1.example.com      Ready     worker    7h        v1.28.5
node2.example.com      Ready     worker    7h        v1.28.5
node3.example.com      Ready     worker    7h        v1.28.5
----

> . Annotate the default Ingress Controller to schedule only on nodes with the specifed label by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Patch the default Ingress Controller to schedule only on nodes with the specified label by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-ingress-operator patch ingresscontroller/default --type='merge' --patch '{"spec":{"nodePlacement":{"nodeSelector":{"matchLabels":{"<key_name>":"<value>"}}}}}'
----

> . Annotate the publishing Classic Load Balancer service of the default Ingress Controller with the cloud-based nodes by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Annotate the publishing service of the default Ingress Controller to configure Classic Load Balancer to target the cloud-based nodes by running the following command:
```
